# SE 4450 Capstone - HoloArm
Group 3: Katie Cossarini, Caleb Thompson, Adam Freeman, Cameron Blatt, Justin D'Ailly, & Madeleine Di Gregorio

Title: An Augmented Reality C-Arm X-Ray Simulator for Medical Education

Abstract:
Minimally invasive surgical procedures, a desirable alternative to open surgery, necessitate the use image guidance to provide visual information to the surgical team. C-arm fluoroscopy is one such common X-ray based mobile imaging system; however, this tool requires extensive training to operate, and excessive use can lead to harmful radiation exposure. This project aims to address deficiencies in traditional medical training practices by developing a radiation-free, augmented reality C-Arm simulation system. The user observes the stand-alone application through the Microsoft HoloLens 2 head-mounted display and interacts with the scene via hand gestures.
This project was built using Unity engine, C#, and the Mixed Reality Toolkit. Majority of scene game objects, including the C-Arm, gantry, patient body, and table, were rendered using traditional mesh rendering techniques. To facilitate x-ray capabilities the spine model was represented using volume rendering achieved through the integration of Unity plugins. The C-Arm simulator developed in this project accurately displayed an operation room consisting of the simulated patient; patient table/bed; C-Arm, control panel, and gantry; and TV for displaying acquired medical images. Using hand gestures to trigger interactable buttons on the control panel, the user was able to rotate the C-Arm about the x-axis, or transform its position along the x-, y-, z-axes. The patient table can be transformed along the y- and z-axes, moving the table up/down or in/put of the C-Arm apparatus. When the Digitally Reconstructed Radiograph (DRR) button is triggered, the system was able to successfully capture an x-ray image of the volume-rendered spine and display the snapshot on the TV object within the scene. Multi-user collaboration allows users to participate simultaneously in the shared AR experience. Overall, the C-Arm simulator met the objectives of mimicking the medical environment and generating DRRs in a radiation-free, patient-independent manner. Future assessment is required to determine whether the AR app improves medical training and C-Arm positioning accuracy. This application represents a step toward AR integration into medical teaching and practice.
